I am stinky say hi I'm Kathy DJ today we
are going to make a base you can fry
rice Oh Kappa Kapow so let's dive right
in with your basil chicken fried rice
the first thing we need for fry rice is
four cups of cooked rice okay and that
is jasmine rice right and now why do you
use jasmine rice
Tice preferred jasmine rice and jasmine
rice is actually long grain fragrant
rice and that's the Thai favorite
alright and next is six clove of garlic
okay and two Thai chili peppers so
depending on how spicy you want and of
course if you don't want it spicy leave
it out I've smashed all these together
in the mortar here okay when you do this
you have to be careful and then why are
you smashing it okay to chop everything
up yes you can do that but this will
bring out more flavor all the garlic and
let she leave your purse you can
actually just use a big knife and lay it
flat and smash everything under it if
you don't have a mortar pestle but if
you're going to cook Thai food a lot
definitely invest in one of these
because it makes everything taste way
better
so how fine are you smashing this it
doesn't have to be real fine just to
release all those flavors and break it
up so you don't get a huge bite of
Chilean or a huge bite of garlic okay
this is about Jess right looks good okay
and I would heat up the oil now medium
heat for now just to heat up the oil
okay you've got a big walk there and how
much oil are you
gonna use a quarter cup okay of
vegetable oil all right and we're using
medium heat at first so that we don't
overcook the chicken right no we don't
want to burn the garlic okay
before that she can in that way and we
use high heat okay okay good to know and
garlic when it burns it gets a yucky
bitter bitter flavor right okay I start
to see the smoke so this is good time to
put the talaq and she kept her in okay
how are you gonna cook that oh just few
seconds just to to Browder
dalek but not to burned it alright and
this is a chicken meat is one and a half
pounds okay and what are you using
crusty yeah you can use whatever you
like and what needs or the done okay
and now are you going to cook the
chicken all the way through the club
maybe have the coop okay and this is
oyster sauce this is a pretty tablespoon
okay oranges are and I put in 1 tsp off
a suger and that oil sauce is a Chinese
ingredient
aha and pool tablespoon of fish sauce
okay and fish sauce is a staple of Thai
food it's made out of anchovies or other
small sets and then they put the small
fish into these large jars and the mixes
it with saltwater and then they leave
the jars in the Sun for several minutes
the fish actually dissolves in the water
and then it gets all night and very very
salty at this point they asked more
liquid to sit it out right and that's
what fish sauce is was a staple of Thai
foods it's got a nice meaty flavor that
salt doesn't tend to have so 25 years
ago when my mom first came to America
from Thailand
she packed up all her bags ready to go
and she spilled her suitcases with fish
sauce and then she got off the plane and
my dad had seen her suitcases full of
fish sauce and he just started laughing
don't have at me so that was the frantic
goodbye ending here sorry people could
not live without fish sauce okay and
that's it and gone - he's tired
okay now we're really cooking
and put in the right okay and again how
much rice is that full cup cooked right
this is a great meal especially if
you've got some leftover rice sitting
around because nothing makes a better
fried rice than day-old rice it's a
little drier so the rice holds its own
very well yo and you so fry on my screen
and I feel burns so we cook this until
does she think it's cool okay and
typically how long does it take five
minutes three to five minutes okay
depending on how hot your stove is we've
got a really hot pan so quicker than
most okay when the chicken is cool
uh-huh I put in this is from one red
bell pepper okay a whole red bell pepper
huh thank you Red River and right it's
fine Fred shape okay and I will put in
about two cups of fresh basil okay Betty
Lee's okay I'll go ahead and say okay
Oh smells so great the basil is a key
ingredient in this recipe okay and
that's an obligate some you don't want
to cook that put it in there the bowl
here you got a nice Bowl and I honestly
think if I had to pick one thing that I
had to live off him for the rest of my
life it would be this chicken basil
fried rice I love it
you okay looks good and this is how we
serve the spicy chicken fry rice with
sweet basil uh-huh Thai people always
eat fried rice with fresh cucumber it
cuts down the spiciness gives it a nice
crunch and the cool flavors with the
spicy flavor so it tastes so good
and of course Elantra right no just to
put it on top okay as a garnish it's not
just something that I've grown to love
and we always put fresh limes on the
side okay so you can squeeze it on top
of the fries if you like oh I love all
kinds of flavors all mixed in one dish
looks great I can't wait to eat it
want to learn how to cook the Thai
dishes that you've seen on today's show
female us at dim at Thai food tonight
calm and tell us the recipe that you'd
like will also be happy to try and
answer any of your Thai cooking
questions this program brought to you in
part by Thai Kitchen offering a full
line of high ingredients and products to
help you bring that Thai experience home
anytime
you